# RPM-Project
AI agent in Python to solve RPM matrices; a human intelligence test comprised of advanced pattern recognition based on a matrix of images. This agent very closely models how a human would solve these RPM matrices problems. The agent does this be leveraging a combination of several knowledge- based AI techniques along with a few unique and powerful heuristics. A basic overview would be that the agent has knowledge about how to solve different kind of problems within its persistent memory. When the agent encounters a new problem, it uses its knowledge to extract important information into its working memory, and then uses its knowledge to select one or a combination of multiple methods in order to solve the problem. 

Within its persistent memory, the agent has stored several different techniques in for pattern recognition. However, these techniques differ based on the type of problem the agent is trying to solve. Thus the agent first attempts to classify the problem. The first classification it does is to identify whether it is a 2x2 problem or a 3x3 problem. Once the agent has decided what kind of problem it is, the agent proceeds to create a frame representation for each problem. Each frame represents each matrix. Each image within the matrix is presented by a Node within the frame. The agent extracts information from the image and stores it into its respective node. The agent starts by converting the image to a numpy array of shape (184, 184, 4) where each value in the numpy array can be repre- sented from 0 to 255 such that 0 represents black and 255 represents the colour of its dimension R, G, or B. The agent also proceeds to extract other use full information and manipulate this image array in order to be able to be more efficient while using certain heuristics. For instance, the agent compresses and reshapes the image array to a binary array of shape (184, 184) where a 0 represents white and 1 represents a black. Moreover, the agent also calculates use full properties such as the ratio of black to white within the image. The agent then uses its knowledge along with the Frame representation of the in order to solve it. This works very closely to how a human would use their past experience to solve new problems.
